---
layout: post
title: "[ubuntu] About Ubuntu (Server) Setting"
subtitle: ""
categories: [Study/Linux & Infra]
tags: [Linux, ubuntu, ubuntu server, mount, usb]
comments: true
---

## USER

### How to ADD,DELETE user

1. ADD

    `$ sudo adduser <username>`

2. DELETE

    `$ sudo deluser <username>`
    - IF YOU WANT to remove the user files\
    `$ sudo deluser --remove-home <username>`

#### To give sudo privilge

`$ sudo usermod -aG sudo <username>`\
run a command with sudo privileges without entering the password\
\
`$ EDITOR=vim visudo`\
adding a line below to ~end of file~. replace username with yours

``` config
username ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
```

## Connect AirPods

### Enabling Airpods as earbuds and microphone

- [Reference 1](https://reckoning.dev/blog/airpods-pro-ubuntu/)

## LVM (file system)

### how to resize the default LVM volume

- [Reference 2]( https://slice2.com/2020/12/05/howto-easily-resize-the-default-lvm-volume-on-ubuntu-18-04/)

### About LVM and how to manage

- [About LVM](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-lvm-concepts-terminology-and-operations)
- [how to use LVM to manage storage device](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-lvm-to-manage-storage-devices-on-ubuntu-18-04)

## managing packages using apt

``` bash
ls /etc/apt/sources.list.d/
```

``` bash
sudo add-apt-repository --remove ppa:whatever/ppa
```

## apt-key

- apt-key is deprecated .. so if you got warning about it, see [here](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/jammy/en/man8/apt-key.8.html#deprecation)

## setting Firewall

### with `ufw`

- [Reference 3](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-a-firewall-with-ufw-on-ubuntu-18-04)

### with `iptables`

If you installed AlgoVPN, you cannot use other firewall tools including `ufw`.\
Please check [this page](https://github.com/mobile-shell/mosh/issues/1250), if you want to more.\
Furthermore, if you want to save the rules, you should save the rules in `/etc/iptables/rules.v4` and `/etc/iptables/rules.v6` after installing the apt package `iptables-persistent`.

## When network does not work

I've experienced the Internet connection wasn't established
after inserting gpu on my computer.\
The reason was the settings about PCI devices. My LAN Card and GPU used PCI bus.\
but when I used before, I didn't use GPU.
So my computer set LAN Card using PCI bus, named enp2s0.\
However, after setting gpu, I don't know why exactly, but LAN Card got enp3s0.
I might think the gpu get second PCI device name.\
Long prefaces. I solved problem using below try.\
\
[Reference 4](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1362467/cant-enable-enp3s0-ethernet-interface-and-ethernet-wired-simply-does-not-work)

1. `sudo lshw -C network`
    - outputs are the LAN Cards that computer can use.
    - I had gotten `*-network DISABLED` about my mainboard LAN card.
2. `sudo ip link set enp3s0 up`
3. change PCI devices name on `/etc/netplan/*.yaml`
    - the exact file name is different. find your mainboard(or something you want) LAN card setting.
    - example

    ``` yaml
    network:
        version: 2
        renderer: NetworkManager
        ethernets:
            enp3s0:
                dhcp4: true
    ```

4. sudo netplan apply
5. sudo systemctl restart NetworkManager.service

- and I don't use [this](https://krujy.tistory.com/13), but it could be useful maybe..

## Setting the default editor for all programs

``` bash
export VISUAL=vim
export EDITOR='$VISUAL'
```

- Setting both is not necessarily needed, but some programs may be required.

## How to keep turning on the laptop when it closes

### Using GUI

1. `sudo apt install gnome-tweaks`
2. open the application `Tweaks`
3. set off `Suspend when the laptop lid is closed` option.

### Using Terminal

1. `sudo vim /etc/systemd/logind.conf`
2. change `#HandleLidSwitch=suspend` to `HandleLidSwitch=ignore`

## How to add swap space

### Creating a swap file

``` bash
sudo fallocate -l 2G /swapfile
sudo chmod 600 /swapfile
sudo mkswap /swapfile
sudo swapon /swapfile
```

- if the fallocate failed with the error message `fallocate failed: Operation not supported`, try

    ``` bash
    sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/swapfile bs=1024 count=2097152
    ```

- to make the change permanently, add the following line in `/etc/fstab`

    ``` config
    /swapfile swap swap defaults 0 0
    ```

### Check and Change the Swappiness Value

1. check swappiness value

    ``` bash
    cat /proc/sys/vm/swappiness
    ```

2. change swappiness value

    ``` bash
    sudo sysctl vm.swappiness=10
    ```

    - to make the change permanently, add the following line in `/etc/sysctl.conf`

    ``` config
    vm.swappiness=10
    ```

### Removing a swap file

1. `sudo swapoff -v /swapfile`
2. remove the line `/swapfile swap swap defaults 0 0` from the `/etc/fstab` file
3. `sudo rm /swapfile`
